So what actually is spring.
Let's start with a brief history of why Joe developers preferred against the Jowa family's own implementation
itself.
And most importantly what makes spring so popular Well we have to take a step back and look what was
the life like before spring EJB and Jubba it all up and is really hard.
In Joe's own world of enterprise application development even the simplest tasks were very painful to
implement.
You had to be adhering to the ECB specification and that's another complicated story.
So the good old EJB specification you had to be writing a lot of boilerplate code and configuring hundreds
of lines of example.
You also had to do well up all the different parts of your application as components and had to deploy
them to application containers.
So to expose them to your end user on our application
components in the sense would be either a Jowa archive or a jar web archive or a war or an enterprise
archive or namely ear
containers would be containing web contacts or enterprise jellybeans.
Services would be security transactional resource pooling persistence and so on.
Of course you needed the meta data for all that deployment you need which is basically an XML file but
those problems in mind Rob Johnson probably said to himself Well this is not a good way to work on Java
Enterprise application development.
This has to be simplified somehow.
Spring Framework project started by Ron Johnson in 2002 and released under Apache license in 2003.
Initial idea was a lightweight container for all kinds of services to serve POJO.
So what this means is that you'll be developing your application as always defining models with plain
old chala objects or Poll shows.
And when you need a business logic presentation layer gateway or basically anything in theory Springville
make it tremendously easy for you to invoke actions on those protocols that you created.
Spring takes advantage of dependency injection design pattern for most of it's heavy lifting.
Spring also embraces inversion of control principle which basically says that you give the control to
the container and never worry about managing dependencies subring also embraces convention over configuration
which says that without even configuring anything you could have a working application.
Probably the most important part of spring has to offer is is that it allows you to focus more on your
implementation in the early days.
There were no notation at all.
How about that.
Well developers who needed spring have to be creating a Supreme Being definition Exham else where they
said things like the name of the bean.
What other beings makes use of and a lot more I guess at this point.
You might be wondering what is being Let's talk about that for a moment
into plain old Joe world.
A being is an object conforming to a couple of per requisites.
The first is that it should have a no or constructor as you might guess it says should.
So you can have as many constructors as you want with there being.
Second it should be serializable.
So this object is being basically has to be transportable through the network file system etc..
One way to conform to our policy.
You might implements Serializable interface to your being and the third is that it should provide methods
to set and get the values of the properties known as getters and setters methods.
While this is one of the most fundamental rules of Apoyo really easy to come from that one as you can
see.
Basically these three rules qualify Apoyo to be named as a being.
So how about a Supreme Being.
What is it then.
Spring beans are not far from the jello bean definition but there is this kind of major difference.
Spring beans are created contained and managed completely by spring.
Inversion of control container.
That might not seem like a big deal but that makes all the difference.
Don't worry about the IOC container for now.
We'll get to that in a moment.
As you can see subring has its own way of managing its beans.
The only thing separates spring beans from giallo beans is that spring beans either have to be defined
within an X somehow or annotated with an appropriate one only that way subring IOC containers can understand
that it's a supreme being and then do the work.
We're using the IOC container a lot.
So what about it.
Before we start I want you to look at the diagram.
It really is telling the whole story.
Basically you first start by creating your class that class or POJO will be are being so you should
conform to the requirements just as we saw a couple of slides before.
You know our constructor make it Serializable and provide getters and setters after having been at hand
and they do it with an appropriate spring annotation.
There you go.
You just create the spring being for yourself.
Now if you execute your up with that being in any way spring will scan and find the bean and created
for you.
Then spring starts doing its magic.
It creates the IOC container and then it's constructs.
That means that you annotate it simply makes them ready for you to be used by your application.
In the end of this process spring finishes the IOC lifecycle spring will create a singleton for your
beans by default.
You must note that it's singleton by default.
It can be overridden with a couple of different alternatives.
After all these actions as you might have figured sping prepares everything to serve the application.
When spring initialises the context as you'll see later on when we start the implementation you won't
be constructing Europeans anymore.
You'll just add an annotation in there.
That said basically that is the magic of spring framework.
Spring does all these so beautifully and so efficiently.
All you have to do is just worry about your business logic already implementation.
Spring takes care of everything under the hood.
Hope this gives you a good understanding of what spring is and how it works.
Now let's take a moment to view the timeline for spring release history three
here we have the timeline for spring ways.
Up until now as we noted earlier Rob Johnson started the project in 2002 and released a preview in 2003.
And we had the one point to our release in 2004 but 2006 was the year of the spotlight for spring project.
Was granted a jolt award.
And David also gave the famous speech on how amazing spring is.
In the speech David also said and I quote tired of gluing application letters by hand to spring framework
uses dependency injection to tie components together for simplifying JMS.
GM X hibernate and AOP spring also increases testability by making parts of the application easily interchangeable
with Mark or alternative implementations.
The framework integrates neatly with others such as Krutz and an eclipse plugin makes it manipulation
human friendly discolored or even 10 years ago says a lot about what spring was and then and what actually
it solves.
Since that day sprint kept adding up to what it really has done great.
And the fact is that it only keeps getting better.
All right let's move on to the 2.5 release in 2007.
This was another important moment in spring history and rotation base being Sopore initially made available
with this version and 2009s 3. release added more annotations support on to it.
Moving on to the year 2012 and here we hit another break point in spring history spring boot was being
developed and a milestone was available.
Then in 2013 we had the spring cloud project coming up to the scene which is another awesome set of
tools for cloud development and deployment.
Here we are in 2017 and we're about to be receiving 50 major release of spring framework.
It will contain Java 9 support for Jigsaw modules and many more awesome features are being developed
and as we speak that's enough of a history lesson that's over we what we learn so far in the next video.